WELCOME EVERYONE
TO THE AUGUST TWENTY SEVENTH
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS MEETING.
I'M CANDICE BRIER, CHAIRPERSON
OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS IS
A NINE PERSON VOLUNTEER BOARD
NOMINATED BY THE MAYOR AND
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL.
FIRST WE WILL HEAR FROM
PLANNING SERVICES REPRESENTED
BY JOHN BARRETT.
THEN THE APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND WILL
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR
REMOTELY.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS STAR
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IF
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL THE SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING ID
NINE THREE EIGHT ONE SIX FOUR
EIGHT ONE ZERO ZERO SEVEN CITY
STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT
HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF THEIR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE FOR THOSE ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK YOU WILL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
ANY TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND
SOUNDS.
WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS OF EITHER
THE CITY OR THE APPLICANT.
WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD.
>> WE WILL ALLOW AN OPINION
PARTY TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT
OR OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE APPEAL.
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OF THE
BOARD WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN
APPEAL TO BE GRANTED.
FINALLY, ANY QUALIFIED PARTY
WHO IS AGGRIEVED BY A DECISION
OF THE BOARD CAN APPEAL THAT
DECISION TO THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT ON A
TIMELY BASIS.
>> ROLL CALL KANDACE BREYER I
AM HERE TO GRANT I AM HERE.
>> DAVE DID MY MICROPHONE
BUTTON CORRECTLY DAVE DAVE
ALREADY I'VE ALREADY HERE PATTI
LASKOWSKI HERE.
JULIE WETHERBEE HERE DREW
DENSON MIKE MIKE DANIEL HERE
DERMO ECKMANN CHRISTINA GUZIK
HERE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE HAVE APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
>> ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS OR
COMMENTS ON THE AGENDA IF NOT
DRIVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA MOTION
FROM TECH SUPPORT
SUPPORT.
>> THANK YOU DAVE.
ALL IN FAVOR.
SAY HI OPPOSED MOVING ON TO
APPROVAL MINUTES.
WE HAVE MINUTES FROM NOW JULY
TWENTY THIRD TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
MEETING.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS,
COMMENTS, CORRECTIONS TO THOSE
MINUTES?
>> IF NOT, DO I HAVE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE MINUTES FROM
JULY SO WE CAN TRULY SUPPORT
SUPPORT?
>> THANK YOU DAVE.
ALL IN FAVOR SAY AYE OPPOSED
MOVING ON TO PUBLIC HEARINGS
FIRST WE HAVE PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO TWO
ZERO FOUR SEVEN ZERO HURON
PARKWAY JOHN GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JOHN BARRETT.
I'M THE ZONING COORDINATOR FOR
THE CITY.
VINOBA THE FIRST AND ONLY
PETITION THIS EVENING IS ZIBA
TWENTY FIVE ZERO ZERO TWO ZERO
AND THE ADDRESS IS 470 HERE ON
PARKWAY STEPHANIE CHIEN
PROPERTY OWNER IS REQUESTING A
TWO FOOT HEIGHT AND FIFTY
PERCENT CAPACITY VARIANCE FROM
TABLE FIVE POINT TWO SIX DASH
ONE HEIGHT AND OPACITY
DANGEROUS FOR FENCES.
THE OWNERS ARE SEEKING TO
INSTALL A NEW SIX FOOT HALF
FULL PRIVACY FENCE THAT WILL BE
THIRTY FIVE LINEAR FEET IN
LENGTH IN THE FRONT YARD THE
MAXIMUM HEIGHT AND CAPACITY FOR
A FENCE IN THE FRONT YARD IN A
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT IS FOUR
FEET TALL AND FIFTY PERCENT
OPAQUE.
THE PROPERTY IS ZONED R ONE BE
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE EAST SIDE OF HERE ON
PARKWAY NORTH OF GATTI'S ROAD
AND SOUTH OF BLAZIER WAY.
THE HOUSE WAS BUILT IN 2015 AND
AS APPROXIMATELY THREE THOUSAND
THREE HUNDRED FORTY TWO SQUARE
FEET IN SIZE ACCORDING TO THE
CITY ASSESSOR'S RECORDS THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY SEEKING A
VARIANCE TO BUILD A SIX FOOT
TALL PRIVACY FENCE IN THE FRONT
YARD.
THE PROPOSED FENCE WILL BE
THIRTY FIVE FEET IN LENGTH.
THE PROPERTY IS LOCATED ON A
CORNER LOT AND THE PROPOSED
FENCE HAS BEEN FALL IN THE
FRONT IN THE YARD THAT FRONTS
HERE ON PARKWAY A SIX FOOT
PRIVACY FENCE EXISTS IN A
PORTION OF THE YARD CURRENTLY
STAFF WAS UNABLE TO FIND A
PERMIT FOR THE FENCE.
IF YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION
TO THE MONITOR'S THE FIRST
SLIDE YOU SEE THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY HIGHLIGHTED IN THE
CENTER OF THE SCREEN AND THE
LOCATION AT THE NEXT SLIDE IS
THE AERIAL MAP SHOWING
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AND
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE BOUNDARY
SURVEY THAT WAS SUBMITTED BY
THE APPLICANTS AND THE
FOLLOWING SLIDES ARE PHOTOS AND
REPRESENTATIONS THAT WERE
SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT.
THIS IS A SATELLITE VIEW
OF THEIR PROPERTY.
NEXT SLIDE IS ANOTHER LIKE I
SAID, THESE ARE ALL THE SLIDES
THAT WERE SUBMITTED BY THE
APPLICANT WITH THEIR
APPLICATION.
THIS IS A DIAGRAM THAT I
SUPPLIED THE APPLICANT WITH
SHOWING THE DIFFERENT YARDS AND
WHAT THEY COULD CONSTRUCT IN
FRONT THE SIDE IN THE REAR.
THE APPLICANTS ARE PROPOSING TO
THEY'RE GOING TO BUILD A SIX
FOOT TALL PRIVACY FENCE AND
GREEN IN THE BACKYARD WHICH IS
A FENCE BY RIGHT.
AND THEN ONCE GETS PAST THE
FRONT FACADE OF THE HOME AND
RED IS WHERE THEY'RE PROPOSING
THIS SIX FOOT TALL PRIVACY
FENCE AND THIRTY FIVE FEET IS
THE REQUEST FOR THE VARIANCE
TONIGHT AND THIS RED
HIGHLIGHTED SECTION OF THIS
ABOUT THIS IS A RENDERING
OF WHAT THE FENCE IS SUPPOSED
TO LOOK LIKE SIX FOOT HIGH
OPAQUE WOOD DOG HERE PICKET
FENCE THESE ARE CURRENT
CONDITIONS OF THE PROPERTY AND
ONCE AGAIN I'LL LET THE
APPLICANTS COMMENT.
ADDITIONALLY, IF I DON'T
DESCRIBE EVERYTHING TO THEIR
SATISFACTION
THIS IS THE
PICTURE OF THE FROM THE REAR
YARD GOING OUT TOWARDS HERE ON
PARKWAY AND YOU SEE THE I
BELIEVE THAT'S THE HIGH SCHOOL
IN THE DISTANCE AND YOU SEE ON
THE RIGHT THE WHITE FENCE
THAT'S THE EXISTING FENCE AND
TO THE LEFT IS THE PROPOSED
FENCE AND THE PROPOSED FENCE IS
INCOMPLETE AND THE FINISHED
FENCE THAT WAS BY RIGHT.
THE SIX FOOT PRIVACY IN THE
REAR YARD.
MORE PHOTOS OF THE PROPERTY THE
SIDE HERE THIS IS LOOKING FRONT
FROM THE FRONT OF THE PROPERTY
PICTURE BETWEEN THE TWO SUBJECT
PROPERTY IN THE RIGHT
NEIGHBORING PROPERTY THE LEFT
AND THE EXISTING FENCE.
THIS IS THE SOUTH SIDE, THE
REAR OF THE YARD.
IT'S LOOKING DOWN THE SMALL CUL
DE SAC TYPE OF STREET DOWN IN
THE SEVERAL PROPERTIES ON THE
RIGHT.
>> THIS IS LOOKING OUT FROM THE
PROPERTY WITH YOUR BACK TO THE
PROPERTY AND LOOKING NORTH
TOWARDS THE DEVELOPMENT TO THE
NORTH KIND OF NEIGHBORHOOD TO
THE NORTH LOOKING DOWN HERE ON
THE PARKWAY TO THE WEST
LOOKING
ALONG PARK HERE ON PARKWAY TO
THE NORTH ANOTHER VIEW OF THE
SURROUNDING AREA HERE IN
PARKWAY, THE PAY IMPROVED
SIDEWALK AND THIS OTHER
PROPERTY TO THE LEFT
.
THIS IS SHOWING LOOKING
DIRECTLY AT THE PROPERTY YOU
CAN SEE THERE'S A SIGNIFICANT
BUFFER BETWEEN THE PARKWAY AND
THE SUBJECT RESIDENTS RESIDENTS
TO THE RIGHT THE BUFFER BETWEEN
THE TWO HERE ON PARKWAY AND THE
AND THE RESIDENT
THESE ARE THE
PHOTOS THAT I TOOK WHEN I WAS
AT THE PROPERTY AND STANDING ON
THE SIDEWALK LOOKING DIRECTLY
AT THE BUFFER AND THE HOUSES
AND IN THE BACKGROUND YOU CAN'T
SEE THE HOUSE BECAUSE THE
BUFFER AND THE EXISTING FENCE
AND THAT PRETTY MUCH COMPLETE
MY PRESENTATION AND I WILL TAKE
ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU MAY HAVE
THIS TIME.
>> THANK YOU, JOHN QUESTIONS
CHRISTINE.
GO AHEAD.
I'M ALWAYS ASKING QUESTIONS
OF CHRISTINE START OK?
YOU MENTIONED THAT THERE IS A
SECTION THAT IS BUILT OF THE
FENCE THAT YOU COULDN'T FIND A
PERMIT FOR WHEN YOU CAN SEE IT
HERE.
IS THAT RIGHT HERE?
OH, JUST THAT FIRST AND THEN
RIGHT HERE COMES UP COMES OUT
RIGHT HERE.
COMES DOWN RIGHT HERE.
THIS AREA I'VE TALKED TO THE
WHOLE WEST YEAH.
I'VE TALKED TO THE APPLICANTS
AND THEY SAID IT WAS INSTALLED
IN THAT CONDITION WHEN THEY
PURCHASED THE HOME AND JUST
WHAT CAPACITY WOULD YOU SAY
THAT EXISTING FENCES IT'S A
IT'S FOR PRIVACY FENCE, OK?
I MEAN THERE MIGHT BE SOME
SMALL GAPS BETWEEN THE BOARDS
BUT THAT'S JUST FROM SHRINKAGE
OVER TIME.
YEAH.
AND THE HEIGHT IS SIX FEET TALL
SO THAT THAT THEY'RE WANTING TO
MATCH THE EXISTING SIGNS AGAIN
THAT RIGHT HERE THAT WITH
THEY'RE EXISTING THAT L SHAPED
THEN DOESN'T MEET THE OPACITY
OR THE HEIGHT AS IT'S CURRENTLY
RIGHT HERE.
YEAH YEAH.
NONE OF THIS STUFF OK THANK
YOU.
>> I GOT SOME QUESTIONS FOR
CLARIFICATION.
THIS IS EXACTLY THE SHOP THAT I
WANTED YOU TO GO TO HELP.
>> HOW MANY FEET IS THE RED
LINE ROUGHLY THIRTY FIVE FEET.
OK SO IT LOOKS LIKE IF YOU'RE
DRAWING LITTLE SQUARES THAT
PART OF THE RED LINE IS REALLY
ON THE SIDE OF THE PROPERTY
THAT'S PARALLEL TO HERE ON
PARKWAY AND THEN PART OF IT IS
PARALLEL TO THE RETAINING WALL
.
SO MAYBE IT'S ONLY HALF THE RED
LINE.
YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN?
IF YOU'RE LOOKING AT A QUARTER
I'M JUST ME.
SO THAT'S JUST ONE COMMENT.
SO THE PART THEY'RE ALLOWED TO
HAVE A SIX FOOT OPAQUELY IN THE
BACK YARD, RIGHT?
>> CORRECT.
OK, THE GREEN SECTION IS OK.
>> COULD YOU GO TO THE VERY
LAST PHOTO BEAR WITH ME NOW YOU
CAN GO BACK TO I WANT TO SEE
ONE WITH THE WHITE AND THE
UNFINISHED FENCE AND THE CURVE
THAT PERFECT PERFECT.
SO THE PART THAT'S OK IS THE
WHITE FENCE IN THE SIDE AND ALL
THE FILLED IN BUILT BROWN PART
IS ALSO OK CORRECT.
CORRECT.
OK SO WHAT THE APPLICANT IS
REALLY PROPOSING IS TO EXTEND
THE SIX FEET TO THE END OF THE
RETAINING WALL IS THAT CORRECT?
>> SO IF YOU WERE TO DRAW AN
IMAGINARY LINE FROM THE BACK
CORNER OF THEIR HOUSE WHICH
WOULD BE THE SOUTHWEST CORNER
AND COME ACROSS HERE IT
BASICALLY RUNS PERPENDICULAR I
MEAN PARALLEL TO THE HOUSE AND
THEN FROM THIS PORCH THAT'S THE
FRONT YARD.
>> IT COMES OUT THIS WAY.
RIGHT.
BUT IT GOES ALONG A RETAINING
WALL THROUGH THERE TALKING
ABOUT THAT BY THE HIGH FENCE.
THEY'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT
BUILDING A SIX FOOT FENCE AFTER
THE RETAINING ALL LANDS JUST TO
THE END OF THE RETAINING WALL.
>> YES, CORRECT.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
BUT IT STILL LOOKS TO ME AS A
PART OF THE RED LINE IS REALLY
IN THE BACKYARD SO MAYBE IT'S
ONLY HALF OF THE THIRTY FIVE
FEET.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I MEAN, YOU
KNOW WE CAN QUIBBLE BUT YOU
KNOW YEAH.
BUT ESSENTIALLY THEY'RE ASKING
SIR IT'S NOT GOING TO GO TO THE
LAST PHOTO IF YOU WOULD.
YEAH THERE ARE A LOT OF PHOTOS
AND YES THERE WERE LET'S SEE I
GOT TO GO THE OTHER WAY I
BELIEVE OK YOU WANT TO
THE
DIAGRAM WITH THE VERY LAST VERY
LAST PHOTO OF THE WHOLE
PRESENTATION.
YEAH, YES.
YEAH IT WOULD BE THE LAST YEAH
THAT'S IT.
SO YEAH SO THEY'RE JUST
PROPOSING TO EXTEND IT ONLY
THAT LITTLE BIT TO THE END THE
RETAINING WALL.
>> NO NO THEY'RE GOING TO
CONTINUE FROM HERE AND ALL THE
WAY TO THAT CONNECT INTO THE
EXISTING THAT'S OK.
>> DOES THE CITY HAVE A PROBLEM
WITH THEM CONNECTING BUILDING A
SIX FOOT FENCE TO THE END
OF THE RETAINING WALL?
>> NO.
YES BECAUSE SO LIKE I SAID,
HERE'S A CORNER OF THE HOUSE UP
EVERYTHING FROM THIS CORNER
OF THE HOUSE TOWARDS PARKWAY IS
TURON PARKWAY IS THE FRONT
YARD.
AND SO IF YOU WERE TO DRAW THIS
IMAGINARY LINE, IT LINES UP
RIGHT HERE AND THIS IS WHERE
THEY STOP THE CONSTRUCTION AND
SO THEY NEED THE VARIANCE FOR
THIS FENCE FROM HERE ALL THE
WAY TO THE CONNECTION TO THE
EXISTING.
>> OK, SO YOU COULD IN THEORY
DIVIDE THE REQUEST INTO TWO.
ONE IS TO FILL IN THE LITTLE
ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR, FIVE,
FIVE WHOLE SORT OF FIVE CENTS
AND THEN THEY ALSO WANT TO
COMPLETE IT SO IT'S A COMPLETE
FENCE ALONG THE SIDE THE YARD
PARALLEL TO HERE ON THE FRONT
HERE A FRONT YARD OK, SO A
SOLUTION WOULD BE FOUR FEET
ALONG THAT BECAUSE THAT'S
WHAT'S REQUIRED.
>> BUT LET THEM HAVE THE SIX
FOOT ALONG THE RETAINING TO THE
CITY HAVE A PROBLEM WITH THAT I
GUESS THAT THAT WOULD BE
SOMETHING THE BOARD WOULD HAVE
TO DECIDE AND THAT WOULD BE
ADJUSTING THEIR REQUEST.
>> OK, ALL RIGHT.
OK BECAUSE ORIGINALLY WHEN I
READ THIS I WAS THINKING WELL
WE WANT TO BUILD A BIG SIX FOOT
SIX FOOT FENCE ORIGINALLY IN
THE VIEW OF HURON PARKWAY.
BUT THAT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE
BECAUSE YOU CAN'T SEE THE HOUSE
FROM HERE ON PARKWAY.
BUT NOW I UNDERSTAND.
>> OKAY.
THANK YOU.
I THINK THAT YOU JUST WENT PAST
IT.
I THINK THAT DIAGRAM IS YOU
KNOW, THIS IS A GOOD DIAGRAM.
I THINK YOU SHOWS THE THE
RETAINING ALL STOPS RIGHT HERE
AND THEN IT CONTINUES THIS
CONNECTION RIGHT HERE.
THEY'VE INFORMED ME THAT THAT'S
THIRTY FEET.
>> DID YOU HAVE A QUESTION?
YES.
JOHN, COULD YOU BACK UP A
LITTLE BIT?
YOU WENT RIGHT PAST HIM FOR
THAT.
>> I WANT TO HAVE A RIGHT THERE
SO THEY'RE ASKING FOR ALL THIS
WHICH YOU SAY IS IN THE FRONT
YARD AND I JUST I DON'T SAY
THAT THE CODE SAYS THAT THE
COACH SAYS OK, HERE RIGHT.
YOU'RE THE ARBITER OF THE
CODE FOR THE ON BEHALF OF CITY
AND THERE'S ALSO THAT LITTLE
SECTION THERE WHICH HAS NO
FRAMING OR NO.
BUT THEY WANT TO FILL ALL
OF THAT WITH SIX WITH THE
CORRECT AND I OK SO THAT IS
CLICK MAKES CLEAR THAT THEY'RE
GOING FURTHER THAN THE
RETAINING WALL OR ASKING TO GO
FURTHER THAN RETAINING WALL
INTO THE FRONT YARD DURING
DISCUSSION I'LL EXPLAIN MY
MIXED FEELINGS ABOUT THIS.
I WAS ACTUALLY THERE AND HAVE
ANOTHER PHOTO IF ANYBODY WANTS
I COULD PASS IT DOWN THAT'S
COMING.
IT'S JUST TO THE RIGHT OF THIS
INCLINE OVER BY THE RETAINING
WALL.
I DO WANT TO SAY THAT RETAINING
WALL IS LIKE FOUR FEET HIGH OR
MAYBE MORE AND WE'RE PUTTING A
SIX FOOT FENCE ON TOP OF THAT
AND I MY QUESTION IS HOW DO
PEOPLE USE THIS PUBLIC LAND TO
THE SOUTH OF THIS SITE?
ARE THERE ANY TRAILS IN THERE
OR PROPOSED TRAILS THAT THE
CITY MIGHT HAVE FOR DEVELOPING
THIS PUBLIC LAND WHICH I ASSUME
IS ADMINISTERED BY THE PARKS
DEPARTMENT?
DO WE AS A CITY I DON'T KNOW
OF ANY FUTURE CLAIMS THAT THIS
IS LAND ADMINISTERED BY THE
PARKS DEPARTMENT, RIGHT?
>> I AM NOT SURE OF THAT.
DAVE.
GOOD ENOUGH.
THANK YOU.
SO I HAVE JUST A QUICK QUESTION
AND THESE PHOTOS IT ALL LOOKS
LIKE THAT ORIGINAL WHITE FENCE
EXTENDS FARTHER BACK THAN WHAT
IT LOOKS LIKE IT EXTENDS IN
MANY OF THE PHOTOS.
HAVE THERE BEEN I GUESS
SECTION?
YEAH, THAT LITTLE LOOP THAT NOT
THERE ANYMORE?
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
IT'S NOT THERE.
THEY START RIGHT HERE MY FIRST
OK ANY THE QUESTIONS FOR JUMP I
DO HAVE ONE MORE ACTUALLY WHERE
IS THE APPLICANT PLANNING ON
RUNNING A FENCE THE ENTIRE
PARALLEL TO HERE ON PARKWAY
BEHIND THE BERM OR ARE THEY
JUST TALKING THERE'S ALREADY
THAT LITTLE OH CAT ALREADY IT
ALREADY EXISTS YOU CAN SEE
RIGHT HERE.
>> OH RIGHT.
OKAY ALL WITHOUT HERE THINKING
THAT A THIRTY FIVE FOOT
VARIANCE FOR THIS RIGHT OK
THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO YES WE'RE GOING
TO CONSIDER IT NOT GOOD FOR ME
BECAUSE IT WAS AN EXISTING
FENCE.
WE DON'T HAVE ANY RECORDS OF IT
AND THE PROPERTY OWNERS HAVE
INFORMED ME THAT IT IS EXISTING
WHEN THEY PURCHASED THE HOME SO
NOT IN THE BUSINESS OF MAKING
PEOPLE TEAR STUFF DOWN BUT
EXISTED AND WE CAN'T WE CAN'T
QUALIFY FOR THE DAVIS KEEP THIS
PHOTO UP.
>> SO THE PROPERTY BOUNDARY IS
THE YELLOW LINE.
SO ALL THIS EVERGREEN BERM IS
THERE PRIVATE PROPERTY HARET SO
REALLY THE CITY HAS NO CONTROL
OVER THAT.
THAT COULD JUST BE TORN DOWN AT
SOME POINT BY EITHER THESE
OWNERS OR A FUTURE OWNER.
YEAH, THEY IT'S NOT A REQUIRED
LANDSCAPE ITEM WITH A SITE
ATTACHED TO ANYTHING THAT I'M
AWARE OF AND IF THIS VARIANCE
IS GRANTED, COULD THEY
ESSENTIALLY PUT AN OPAQUE FENCE
ALL ALONG THAT YELLOW LINE
THERE ALONG HERE ON PARKWAY OR
SOME FUTURE OWNER?
SO IF YOU YOU MIGHT SAY THAT
AND THE VARIANCE THAT'S PASSED
OR IF IT'S IF IT IS PASSED IN
THE LANGUAGE YOU COULD ALTER IT
AND SAY ONLY FOR THIS THIRTY
FIVE FOOT PORTION AND THE
EXISTING FENCE IN THE SOUTHWEST
CORNER OF THE LOT.
OK, THANK YOU.
>> IF THIS IS A CONDO
DEVELOPMENT THAT FIRM COULD BE
SUBJECT TO THE REQUIREMENTS
OF THAT IT MAY BE THERE MIGHT
BE SOME TYPE OF RESTRICTION ON
THAT.
SURE YEAH YEAH THAT WOULD BE A
PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
OR PRIVATE DEED RESTRICTION
THAT THE CITY DOESN'T MANAGE TO
REGULATE ANY ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS FOR JOHN.
>> RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONERS HERE IF
YOU'D LIKE TO COME FORWARD
PLEASE SIGN IN STATE YOUR NAME
FOR THE RECORD YOU'LL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES
.
HELLO EVERYONE.
I'M STEPHANIE CHEN AND THANK
YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY TO
SPEAK.
MY HUSBAND AND I ARE HERE TODAY
TO REQUEST APPROVAL FOR A
VARIANCE THAT WOULD ALLOW US TO
REINSTALL A SIX FOOT FULLY
OPAQUE FENCE IN OUR BACKYARD.
THIS REQUEST BEGAN AFTER STORM
DAMAGE ACCELERATED THE EROSION
ON AN ALREADY UNSTABLE IN OUR
BACKYARD.
THIS REQUIRED US TO INSTALL A
RETAINING WALL AND REMOVE A
PORTION OF THE EXISTING SIX
FOOT FENCE THAT WAS THERE
BEFORE WE BOUGHT THE HOUSE.
WE WOULD NOW LIKE TO REPLACE IT
WITH THE SAME TYPE OF FENCE ONE
ALLOWED IN BACKYARDS AND SIDE
YARDS TO PRESERVE SAFETY FOR
OUR FAMILY WHILE HAVING MINIMAL
IMPACT ON THE SURROUNDING AREA
.
OUR PROPERTY IS UNIQUE BECAUSE
IT DIRECTLY BORDERS HERE ON
PARKWAY, A MAIN ROAD WHERE CARS
OFTEN EXCEED THE 40 MILE AN
HOUR SPEED LIMIT.
THIS CREATES REAL SAFETY
CONCERNS AS WELL AS ELEVATED
NOISE.
WE ARE ALSO CLASSIFIED AS
HAVING TWO FRONT YARDS BUT THE
AREA FOR OUR PLAN FENCE IS
FUNCTIONALLY PART OF OUR
BACKYARD.
OUR PROPERTY IS ALSO SET BACK
FROM THE SIDEWALK AND LINED BY
A LARGE EVERGREEN BERM SO ANY
FENCE THERE WOULD BE AT LEAST
40 FEET FROM THE SIDEWALK AND
SCREENED BY EVERGREENS.
FINALLY THE PROPERTY BACKS UP
TO A NATURE AREA WHICH HAS A
STEEP THAT REQUIRED RETAINING
WALL.
SO WITHOUT A TALL SOLID FENCE
CHILDREN COULD CLIMB OVER, FALL
DOWN THE WALL OR GAIN ACCESS TO
HURON PARKWAY.
THESE POTENTIAL HAZARDS
PROXIMITY TO A MAJOR ROADWAY
AND ELEVATION DROP AND
ADJACENCY TO NATURE COMBINED
WITH THE POSITIVE ATTRIBUTES
OF DISTANCE FROM THE SIDEWALK,
NATURAL SCREENING AND NO
NEIGHBORS ON THREE SIDES OF THE
PROPERTY CREATES CIRCUMSTANCES
NOT TYPICAL FOR MOST HOMES IN
ANN ARBOR.
GIVEN THESE HAZARDS WE FEEL
THAT A SIX FOOT FULLY OPAQUE
FENCE IS THE MINIMUM REASONABLE
SOLUTION.
CHILDREN CAN AND DO CLIMB FOR
FOOT FENCES.
A SIX FOOT SOLID FENCE IS FAR
LESS CLIMBABLE AND ELIMINATES
HAND AND FOOT HOLDS BLOCKING
SIGHTLINES IS ALSO AN IMPORTANT
SAFETY FEATURE IN YOUR HAZARDS
AND OPAQUE FENCE REMOVES
DISTRACTIONS AND REDUCES
CURIOSITY FOR KIDS WHO TRY AND
ACCESS WHAT YOU SEE BEYOND THE
FENCE.
FINALLY IT MEANINGFULLY REDUCES
TRAFFIC NOISE AND HELPS DETER
WILDLIFE FROM THE NATURAL AREA
THAT BRINGS WITH IT THINGS
TICKS AND DROPPINGS FOR US
THESE ARE THESE AREN'T
HYPOTHETICAL RISKS AT ALL.
THEY'RE VERY REAL.
OUR OWN KIDS LOVE TO CLIMB
THINGS INCLUDING FENCES
.
ADDITIONALLY, BOTH MY HUSBAND
AND MY BEST FRIEND KNEW YOUNG
INDIVIDUALS WHO WERE KILLED
WHEN CROSSING A ROAD NEARBY.
EVEN IF THESE RISKS SEEM SMALL
IN OTHER AREAS OF OUR LIVES WE
DO EVERYTHING WE CAN TO
MINIMIZE RISK.
THAT'S WHY WE GO THROUGH
AIRPORT SECURITY.
WHY POOLS CLOSED FOR LIGHTNING
AND WHY PILOTS INSURGENTS HAVE
CHECKLISTS BECAUSE PREVENTION
MATTERS WHEN STAKES ARE LIFE
AND DEATH.
FURTHERMORE, THE CONSEQUENCES
OF THIS FENCE ARE MINIMAL FOR
THE PUBLIC BECAUSE THE FENCE WE
PROPOSE IS SET BACK SCREENED BY
NATURE AND MAINTAINS VISUAL
CONTINUITY.
IT WOULDN'T CLOSE OFF CORRIDORS
AFFECT TRAFFIC SIGHTLINES OR
ALTER THE CHARACTER OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH IS IN LINE
WITH THE SPIRIT OF THE FRONT
YARD FENCE ORDINANCE.
WE DID SEE FOUR LETTERS
OF OPPOSITION BUT NONE WERE
FROM PEOPLE IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
.
FROM THE WORDING OF THE LETTERS
THEY SEEM TO MISUNDERSTAND A
PLAN FOR THE FENCE EITHER
THINKING IT WOULD BE INSTALLED
IN FRONT OF OUR HOUSE OR NEXT
DIRECTLY NEXT TO THE SIDEWALK
IN FRONT OF THE EVERGREEN FARM
NEITHER OF WHICH IS THE CASE.
BY CONTRAST, ALL THREE OF OUR
IMMEDIATE NEIGHBORS ON OUR
PRIVATE DRIVE SUBMITTED LETTERS
OF SUPPORT SINCE THEY
UNDERSTAND THE CONDITIONS AND
AGREE WITH THE NEED FOR FENCE.
TO SUMMARIZE THIS REQUEST IS
NOT ABOUT CONVENIENCE OR
ESTHETICS.
IT'S ABOUT SAFETY, LIVABILITY
AND EQUITY GIVEN THE UNIQUE
CONDITIONS OF OUR PROPERTY, THE
CHALLENGES PROXIMITY TO A MAJOR
ROAD ELEVATION, ADJACENCY TO
NATURE OUR LAND SPECIFIC A SIX
FOOT OPAQUE FENCE WOULD ALLOW
US TO PROTECT OUR CHILDREN,
SECURE OUR YARD AND REDUCE
NOISE WHILE STILL RESPECTING
THE INTENT OF THE ZONING RULES.
THAT'S WHY WE'RE HERE TONIGHT
TO RESPECTFULLY ASK FOR YOUR
APPROVAL OF THIS VARIANCE.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
YOUR QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER I ALWAYS HAVE
QUESTIONS SOMEBODY ELSE I'LL
PUT MY END UP JUST OK GO AHEAD.
OK A VERY NICE PRESENTATION AND
IT'S A VERY LOVELY HOUSE AND
IT'S A PERFECT LOCATION BECAUSE
YOU'RE RIGHT BY THE HIGH SCHOOL
AND THE BASEBALLS A AWAY FROM
THE BEST PARK IN THE CITY SO IT
WAS PERFECT WE'D CHILD PLAY
AREAS BUT I HAVE A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS ABOUT WHAT YOU
SAID IN YOUR APPLICATION ABOUT
THE PARTICULAR DANGERS YOU
MENTIONED CHILDREN.
>> HOW OLD ARE YOUR CHILDREN IF
I MAY ASK?
YEAH, THEY'RE TWO AND FOUR
YEARS OLD.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
SO CHALLENGES IN THE FIRST THE
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES YOU TALK
ABOUT AN INCREASED RISK
OF VEHICLE ACCIDENTS BUT YOU
ALSO STATE WHICH IS CLEARLY
TRUE THAT THE FENCE WILL BE
FORTY FEET FROM THE SIDEWALK
WELL OUTSIDE THE INTERSECTION
IN HURON PARKWAY YOU'RE NOT
REALLY ALLEGING THAT A CAR
WOULD HAVE AN ACCIDENT ON HURON
PARKWAY, SKIP OVER THE
SIDEWALK, GO UP THE BERM
THROUGH THE ROCKS AND TREES
INTO YOUR YARD ARE YOU KNOW,
WE'RE MORE CONCERNED ABOUT
CHILDREN EXITING WHICH ARE LIKE
OUR CHILDREN OR THEIR FRIENDS
OR ANYONE WHO COMES IN BECAUSE
WHEN READING THIS YOU'RE SAYING
YOU WERE WORRIED ABOUT NOT YOUR
CHILDREN BUT CHILDREN IN
GENERAL.
I WAS THINKING IT'S NOT VERY
LIKELY THAT A 16 OR 17 YEAR OLD
FROM HURON HIGH SCHOOL IS GOING
TO GO TRAIPSING IN YOUR YARD
AND WE'RE NOT CONCERNED ABOUT
THAT.
>> YEAH, YEAH.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
>> SO IT'S REALLY NOT CHILDREN
IN GENERAL BUT YOUR CHILDREN.
>> YEAH.
OR ANYONE JUST LIVING IN THE
PROPERTY OR VISITING THE
PROPERTY.
>> YEAH.
AND YOU ALSO ARE CONCERNED
ABOUT DETERRING SMALLER
WILDLIFE AND WHEN I DID THAT I
WAS THINKING CHIPMUNKS AND
SQUIRRELS.
I MEAN I THINK WE'RE DENHA TO
HAVE CHIPMUNKS AND SQUIRRELS.
YOU CAN'T REALLY KEEP THEM OUT
OF YOUR YARD.
WHAT ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT?
WELL IT'S JUST SOMETHING THAT
WE NOTICED IN MOVING HERE THE
NUMBER OF LIKE DROPPINGS IN THE
FRONT YARD VERSUS THE BACKYARD
IS DRASTICALLY DIFFERENT.
WE DON'T REALLY NOTICE IT IN
OUR FRONT YARD BUT IN THE
BACKYARD IT'S BETTER TO WEAR
BOOTS AND FLIP FLOPS AND NOT
ONLY THAT BUT LIKE WE'RE JUST
GETTING NOTIFICATIONS ALL THE
TIME OF LIKE VARIOUS ANIMALS
THAT CANADA GOOSE IS NOT AN
ENDANGERED SPECIES AND THERE IS
BIRD FLU.
SO THOSE ARE SOMEWHAT OF A
CONCERN.
THAT'S TRUE.
I THINK I DON'T KNOW THE LARGER
ANIMALS LIKE YOU MENTIONED SO
LIKE DEER AND WE SKUNKS AND
FOXES THAT COME IN FROM THE THE
NATURE AREA SO WELL DEER CAN
JUMP IN SIX FOOT FENCE SO I
DON'T I IN MY OPINION AN EFFORT
TO DETER SMALLER WILDLIFE THE
ANIMALS BY BUILDING THE FENCE
IS DOOMED TO FAILURE.
WHAT YOU'RE REALLY CONCERNED
ABOUT IT SOUNDS LIKE YOUR OWN
CHILDREN FALLING OFF THE
RETAINING WALL.
ISN'T THAT REALLY THE CORE
OF YOUR CONCERN?
>> YEAH.
OR ACCESSING THE ROADWAY OK.
YEAH
.
>> ARE YOU AMENABLE DURING THE
DISCUSSION MY MY QUESTIONING
JOHN BARRETT, ARE YOU AMENABLE
TO AN OPTION TO JUST EXTENDING
THE SIX FOOT FENCE TO THE END
OF THE RETAINING WALL AND THEN
HAVING FOUR FEET AFTERWARDS?
I MEAN THAT DOESN'T REALLY
PROTECT THEM FROM CLIMBING OVER
?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, YOUR
KIDS ARE TWO AND FOUR AND I
DON'T KNOW THAT THE TYPE
OF FENCE YOU'RE PROPOSING IS
CLIMBABLE EVEN BY A TEN YEAR
OLD.
IS THAT REALLY A REASONABLE
FEAR THAT THEY'RE GOING TO
CLIMB OVER THAT THEY WOULDN'T
ABLE TO CLIMB OVER A SIX FOOT
FENCE BUT THEY COULD CLIMB OVER
A FOUR FENCE?
I MEAN YOU'RE ASSERTING THAT
BUT I JUST DON'T KNOW THAT
THAT'S TRUE.
>> WE HAVE WE LOOKED INTO THAT
ACTUALLY A LITTLE BIT IN
PREPARATION THAT WE HAVE FOUND
A COUPLE OF PAPERS THAT
ACTUALLY LOOKED INTO KIDS'
ABILITY TO CLIMB BARRIERS AND
FENCES AND THESE FOCUSED ON
CHILDREN BETWEEN THE AGE
OF LIKE TWO AND SIX BASICALLY
BUT FOUR FOOT BARRIER
ESSENTIALLY PERCENT OF KIDS CAN
GET OVER EVEN A FIVE FOOT
BARRIER.
ABOUT THIRTY PERCENT OF KIDS
CAN STILL GET OVER SO THAT'S
WHY OUR ASSERTION THAT A SIX
FOOT FENCE IS THE MOST WELL
RESEARCHED.
THANK YOU.
UM,
SO IF THE SIX FOOT FENCE
ONLY WENT TO THE END OF THE
OF THE RETAINING WALL, YOUR
CONCERN IS THEY WOULD GET OVER
A FOUR FOOT LITTLE GAP HERE BUT
THEY CAN ALSO GET OVER A FOOT
FOOT GAP AND GO THROUGH THE
EVERGREENS AND THE BOULDERS
ONTO THE STREET HABITATS.
>> YEAH, RIGHT.
YEAH.
SO THAT'S WHY WE WOULD WANT THE
SIX FOOT FENCE ALL THE WAY ON
PARALLEL HIGHWAY TO MAINTAIN
WHAT'S ALREADY THERE WHICH IS A
SIX FOOT OPAQUE ANSWER.
SO THE FENCE THAT RUNS PARALLEL
TO HERE ON PARKWAY IS IT ALL
SIX FEET.
>> YEAH IT'S THE ENTIRE THING
CURRENTLY A SIX FOOT FULLY
OPAQUE AND THAT'S OH IT WAS
WHEN WE BOUGHT IT SO IT FELT
LIKE A SECURE AREA FOR US AND
OUR KIDS.
>> SO IT'S NOT SUPPOSED TO
EXIST BUT BECAUSE IT'S THERE
THE CITY IS NOT GOING TO MAKE
YOU YEAR.
YEAH THAT'S SOMETHING WE DIDN'T
REALIZE UNTIL WE YOU KNOW, TORE
IT DOWN FOR THE RETAINING.
>> YEAH BUT IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU
REALLY WANT THE SIX FOOT FENCE
THE THING.
YEAH.
OK.
>> I'VE BEEN A VERY THOROUGH
PREPARATION WILL ARGUE THANK
YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR
CHRISTINE HOW LONG HAVE YOU
BEEN THE PROPERTY WE MOVED
THERE IN TWENTY TWENTY TWO
TWENTY TWO OK AND YOU BOUGHT IT
YOU TWO ARE THE YOU WALKED
AROUND THE SITE AND YOU YOU
UNDERSTOOD THE SITE CONDITIONS
DURING THE PROCESS
OF EVALUATING THE PROPERTY TO
PURCHASE.
YEAH I MEAN SIGHT UNSEEN WE
UNDERSTOOD I THINK WHAT HELPED
IS THAT THE THE OWNERS THE
PREVIOUS OWNERS SAID WITH THE
BACKYARD WAS FULLY ENCLOSED THE
WAY IT WAS WITH THE SIX FOOT
FENCE.
THEY SAID THEY FELT COMFORTABLE
WITH THEIR YOUNG KIDS LIVING
THERE AND YOU KNOW, HELPED US
FEEL BETTER ABOUT THAT TOO.
SO WE WERE JUST TRYING TO
MAINTAIN THAT, YOU KNOW, AFTER
THE RETAINING ALL CONSTRUCTION
BUT YOU WANT THE SITE SO YOU
SAW ALL CORNERS OF THE PROPERTY
AT THE TIME OF PURCHASE?
YEAH.
I MEAN DO YOU MEAN WE JUST
WALKED AROUND THE WHOLE AREA I
MEAN YOU UNDERSTOOD WHAT YOU
WERE PURCHASING AT THE TIME
THREE YEARS AGO OK WE DIDN'T
UNDERSTAND THAT IT THAT THAT
SIDE PART WAS NOT PERMITTED AND
THAT IT SHOULD HAVE BEEN A FOUR
FOOT FIFTY PERCENT OPAQUE FENCE
THAT THE CORNER WAS OPEN IS THE
CORNER WAS NOT THAT'S ACTUALLY
PART OF STORM DAMAGE THAT WE
TALKED ABOUT.
SO PART OF OUR LONG TERM PLAN
IS TO ACTUALLY REINSTALL LIKE
RFID.
YOU KNOW, IT PROVIDES, YOU
KNOW, ADDITIONAL PROTECTION AND
SO WE'RE PLANNING THAT USED TO
BE LIKE A CLOSED OFF AREA ON.
SO YOU CAN SEE ON THIS PICTURE
THERE'S ACTUALLY KIND OF A
CORNER FENCE THAT'S STILL
THAT'S THERE BECAUSE THIS
PICTURE WAS TAKEN BEFORE THE
FENCE GOT TAKEN DOWN FOR THE
RETAINING WALL AND SO WE'RE
SEEKING TO RESTORE THAT.
WELL, YEAH, I DON'T KNOW THAT
WE FULLY THE OTHER THING THAT
WE LEARNED THROUGH THIS PROCESS
OF THE RETAINING WALL IS THAT
THERE'S AN EASEMENT THERE FOR A
SEWER EASEMENT.
SO I DON'T KNOW WHAT WE CAN DO
BUT WE'RE GOING TO ADD IN WE
WOULD LIKE TO ADD ANN ARBOR
VIDES WHEREVER WE CAN JUST TO
KIND OF SO THE CONDITION OF THE
PROPERTY HAS CHANGED.
YEAH, DUE TO STORM SIZE STORM
AS THE STORM DAMAGE DONE IT WAS
TWENTY TWENTY THREE IT WAS LIKE
A PRETTY YEAH WE THERE ARE A
BUNCH OF REALLY BIG TREES THAT
FELL DOWN IN THE NATURE AREA.
THEY ACTUALLY ARE THE ONES THAT
KNOCKED DOWN OUR TREES AS WELL
AS OUR FENCE
AT THAT TIME AS
WELL SO THAT WHEN THE SOIL
EROSION OCCURRED THAT WAS
ALREADY SOMETHING WE DIDN'T
REALIZE THAT IT WAS SLOWLY
HAVING AN ISSUE.
BUT THEN ONCE WE MOVED IN WE
WERE NOTICING THE GAP
UNDERNEATH THE FENCE GETTING
GETTING LARGER SO WE HAD TO
BOARD THAT UP AND THEN WE LOST
A TON OF TREES ON THE ON THE
SOUTH SIDE OF THE FENCE AND SO
THAT KIND OF JUST THERE WAS NO
LIKE GREENERY AND STUFF LIKE
THAT ALL GOT DAMAGED AND SO THE
JUST GOT WORSE.
TO SUMMARIZE, YOU GUYS MOVED
IN.
THE FENCE WAS ALREADY THERE.
YOU HAD A BIG STORM COME
THROUGH, KNOCKED DOWN PART
OF THE FENCE.
YOU HAD SOME SOIL EROSION AS
WELL.
AND SO YOU GUYS BUILT RETAINING
WALL AND WHEN YOU BOUGHT THAT
RETAINING WALL AND TOOK DOWN
PART OF THE OTHER PART OF THE
FENCE THAT WAS HIT BY TREES OR
WHATEVER AND THEN YOU JUST WANT
TO PUT IT BACK SO THAT YOU HAVE
A FULLY ENCLOSED BACKYARD THAT
MATCHES.
RIGHT.
SO IT WAS ALL FENCED BEFORE THE
STORM FULLY LIKE FULLY AROUND.
THERE WAS NO BREAKS, NO GAP
DOWN THERE BECAUSE WE THOUGHT
IT WAS LIKE FULLY JUST SECLUDED
BACK THERE WITH NO ACCESS.
I DON'T REALLY KNOW WHAT THE
RULES ARE NOW THAT WE'VE
LEARNED THAT THERE'S AN
EASEMENT THERE.
BUT THAT'S JUST NEXT STEPS FOR
US TO FIGURE OUT OK, SO
FOLLOWING THE STORM DAMAGE SO
THE FENCE PREEXISTED, THERE ARE
SIX FOOT FENCE ALL AROUND WHEN
YOU MOVED IN AND FOLLOWING THE
STORM DAMAGE YOU NOT YOU HAD TO
PUT THAT RETAINING WALL BECAUSE
THERE'S SIGNIFICANT IN THERE.
I MEAN ANY EXTRA GROUND
COVER YOU COULD PUT TO MINIMIZE
EROSION.
I ADVISE YOU ON YOUR PROPERTY
TO DO THAT WITHIN REASON.
I THINK EROSION IS GOING TO
CONTINUE TO BE A PROBLEM.
BUT I, I I WAS OUT THERE THAT'S
A SUBSTANTIAL RETAINING WALL
THAT I IMAGINE WAS A
SUBSTANTIAL EXPENSE FOR YOU TO
PUT IN.
YEAH.
AND NOW YOU JUST WANT TO
RESTORE THE FENCE AS IT WAS.
YEAH.
WHEN YOU MOVED IN.
>> YEAH.
AND THEN I DON'T KNOW IF YOU
SAW THAT BARRIER AREA BEHIND
THE RETAINING WALL OUR PLAN IS
TO LIKE THAT WAS FULL
OF INVASIVE LIKE HONEYSUCKLE
AND BUCKTHORN.
RIGHT NOW WE'RE NOW PLANNING ON
JUST WE'RE NOT PLANNING ON
USING THAT AREA AT ALL.
RIGHT.
IT IS PART OF OUR PROPERTY BUT
WE'RE GOING TO JUST PLANT LIKE
NATIVE WILDFLOWER SEEDS LIKE
THE WHOLE AREA AND JUST LEAVE
IT AT THAT.
SO THAT'S WHY WE WE DON'T
REALLY PLAN TO USE THIS AREA.
WE JUST SO TO HAVE LIKE WHAT'S
ON THE SCREEN RIGHT NOW THERE'S
SOME KIND BEER AREA.
YEAH, MY FEAR IS THAT BECAUSE
THERE'S CONTINUING SLOPING TO
THE FURTHER TO THE SOUTH IS
THAT FLAT REMAINS BARE.
THERE'S GOING TO BE CONTINUED
EROSION ON FUTURE HEAVY STORMS.
WE AGREE.
AND SINCE THAT'S YOUR PROPERTY
,ANYTHING YOU CAN DO TO HELP
CONTAIN THAT EROSION OR MEDIATE
MEDIATED WOULD BE VERY HELPFUL.
EVEN THIS SIDE THAT'S IN HERE
IT LOOKS LIKE RELATIVELY NEW
SOD.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THIS SEWER
EASEMENT IS IN THERE AND I KNOW
TREES SEWERS DON'T LIKE TREE
ROOTS BUT ANY SORT OF THINGS
WITH DEEPER ROOTS THAT YOU
COULD PUT IN THE SODDED AREA
WOULD BE HELPFUL AS WELL.
AND IT'S CLEAR TO ME THAT
YOU'RE VERY AWARE OF THE
ONGOING EROSION DANGER FROM
FUTURE STORMS.
THAT'S A SUBSTANTIAL RETAINING
WALL.
I COMPLIMENT YOU FOR PUTTING IT
IN THERE.
>> YEAH, YEAH.
YEAH, WELL DEFINITELY.
I MEAN WE'RE HOPING THE WHOLE
THING IS COVERED WITH
WILDFLOWERS.
I HEARD IT TAKES TWO TO THREE
YEARS FOR IT ALL TO GROW IN THE
SAW HERE WAS PUT IN BECAUSE
JUST FROM AS IMMEDIATE SOLUTION
TO THE EROSION.
SO THAT'S WHY WE PUT THAT
THERE.
>> MIKE JOHN THERE'S NO PHONE
THERE'S NO EVIDENCE EITHER WAY
OF WHAT THAT LOOK LIKE BEFORE
THE STORM IS TWENTY TWENTY
THREE RIGHT.
>> I DON'T I DON'T HAVE ANY
PICTURES.
YEAH IT'S JUST THAT FENCE LINE
RIGHT THERE AND THAT WAS ALL A
SIX FOOT FULLY FENCE NO GAPS
AND THIS WAS ALL THE WAY NO
GAPS OK I COULD I DON'T KNOW I
HATE SOMEWHERE BUT YOU SEEM
LIKE VERY TRUSTWORTHY PEOPLE.
>> YEAH WE GOT YEAH WE WOULD
NOT LIE ABOUT THAT ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS FOR THE PETITIONER'S
.
RIGHT THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
AT THIS POINT WE WILL OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING SO IF THERE'S
ANYONE FROM THE PUBLIC WHO
WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION I DO NOT SEE ANYONE
HERE IN PERSON SO IF THERE'S
ANYONE ACCESSING THE MEETING
REMOTELY, PLEASE PRESS STAR
SIGN OR USE THE RAISED RAISED
HAND BUTTON.
THERE ARE NO CALLERS AT THIS
TIME.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
I WILL NOTE WE DID RECEIVE
SEVERAL EMAILS AND LETTERS
REGARDING THIS PETITION SO WE
HAVE A LETTER OF OBJECTION
DOESN'T LIST AND ADDRESS JUST
LISTS A NAME AS THE GETTY'S
LIKE COUPLE.
WE HAVE A LETTER OF OBJECTION
FROM A TWENTY SIX YEAR RESIDENT
OF GATTI'S LAKE CONDOMINIUMS.
WE HAVE A LETTER OF SUPPORT
FROM JENNIFER AND STEPHEN COHEN
AT FIVE HUNDRED HERE ON
PARKWAY, A LETTER OF OBJECTION
FROM JUNE DENNIS GORDON A
LETTER OF SUPPORT FROM FOUR
EIGHT ZERO ON PARKWAY A LETTER
OF OBJECTION FROM CAROLE
TEXTUALLY IT SEVEN THREE SEVEN
CHENAB DRIVE A LETTER
OF SUPPORT FROM DEB WEINSTEIN
AND TONY ROWSON ROSENZWEIG AT
FOUR NINETY HERE PARKWAY AND A
LETTER OF OPPOSITION FROM KIRK
WESTFALL IN WARD TWO.
WITH THAT TO THE PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED AND WE ARE IN
DISCUSSION.
I'M GOING TO SUPPORT THIS.
IT WAS A PREEXISTING SITUATION
.
I THINK THE HOMEOWNERS HAVE
DONE EVERYTHING THEY CAN COULD
TO EMAIL YOUR AT THE STORY
EROSION FROM STORM DAMAGE AND
THEY ARE JUST ASKING TO RESTORE
THE SITUATION THAT WAS ER I DID
I COULD NOT TELL THERE WAS A
FENCE BEHIND THOSE EVERGREENS.
I WALKED UP AND DOWN HERE ON
STREET AND WHEN I READ THOSE
LETTERS OF OBJECTION AND MY
SENSE WAS PEOPLE WERE READING
READING THIS APPLICATION AS IF
THERE WAS GOING TO BE A NEW
FENCE IN FRONT OF THOSE TREES
CHANGING THE LOOK OF HURON
PARKWAY WHICH IS WAS DESIGNED
IN THE EARLY 1970S TO BE A
PARKWAY WITH CLOSE TO NATURE.
LOOK, THAT IS GOING TO CONTINUE
TO EXIST.
THE FENCE THAT'S STILL THERE IS
INVISIBLE.
YOU CAN'T SEE IT.
I TRIED TO TAKE A PICTURE OF IT
THROUGH THE TREES AND YOU COULD
BARELY SEE IT THAT THE FENCE
THAT EVEN THOUGH IT'S IN THE
FRONT YARD THE SHAPE OF IT IS
ALSO SHIELDED BY FROM VIEW FROM
HERE ON PARKWAY BY THE BY THE
TREES THAT ARE EXISTING THERE.
MY HOPE IS THAT THEY WOULD PUT
SOME MORE TREES AS LONG AS THAT
DOESN'T INTERFERE WITH THE
SEWAGE THEY'RE BUT I DON'T SEE
ANY ISSUE WITH THE WAY PEOPLE
ARE GOING TO SEE THIS FENCE.
NORMALLY I WOULD BE AGAINST
THIS YOU KNOW I WOULD SAY CAN'T
YOU USE A FOUR FOOT FENCE?
BUT TO ME IT'S IT'S GOING TO BE
NO VIEW OF THIS FROM HERE ON
PARKWAY AS FAR AS I CAN.
AND THOSE ARE EVERGREENS.
THEY'RE NOT DECIDUOUS TREES
ALTHOUGH A COUPLE OF THEM ARE
DECIDUOUS TREES.
I THINK THAT SCREENING THE
FOLIAGE SCREENING OF THE FENCE
WILL BE VERY EFFECTIVE IN
MAINTAINING THE LOOK AT THE
PARKWAY.
SO I'M GOING TO VOTE IN FAVOR
OF THIS.
SO FOR ME THE KEY PIECE
OF INFORMATION IS THERE IS A
FENCE THERE BEFORE THE STORM.
WE DON'T HAVE ANY EVIDENCE BUT
I DID GO LOOK GOOGLE EARTH AS
OF SEVEN NINETEEN TWENTY TWENTY
THREE IT APPEARS THERE WAS A
FENCE THAT WENT ALL THE WAY
AROUND THERE SO THE STORM
HAPPENED AFTER JULY 19TH IN
TWENTY TWENTY THREE WHICH VERY
WELL COULD HAVE BEEN LIKELY.
>> IT JUST I ALREADY BELIEVED
YOU FOR THE FINE FOLKS AT
GOOGLE HAVE BACKED YOU UP HERE
AND I'M GOING TO VOTE FOR THIS
CHRISTINA NOW GO AHEAD.
OK, SO I COULDN'T RESIST I'M
SOMEWHAT ON THE FENCE ABOUT
THIS SO I DO AGREE THAT WOULD
BE RESTORING SOMETHING THAT
EXISTED BEFORE THAT WASN'T IN
COMPLIANCE WITH THE ZONING
ORDINANCE.
THE BIG PROBLEM I HAD IS THE
FIRST CRITERION WE HAVE IS THE
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY UNIQUE TO
THIS PROPERTY.
IT IS NOT HERE IT IS DRIVE JUST
TO THE NORTH HAS HOUSES THAT
ARE RIGHT ALONG HURON PARKWAY
ALBEIT THEY DON'T HAVE A
RETAINING WALL AND I'LL ADDRESS
THAT IN A MINUTE.
THERE HAVE TO BE HUNDREDS
OF HOUSES IN THE ANN ARBOR WITH
SMALL FRONT LAWNS ON BUSY
STREETS JACKSON ROAD EXTER IN
ARBOR'S SALEEN PEOPLE WATCH
YOUR KIDS AND THAT'S JUST WHAT
IT IS.
AND THE EXTREME CASE OF COURSE
IS THE NEW THIS SITUATION WHEN
THEY BOUGHT THE HOME THE
ARCHETYPAL SILICEOUS ALONG THIS
LINE IS PEOPLE WHO MOVE NEXT TO
AN AIRPORT AND THEN COMPLAIN
ABOUT THE NOISE FROM PLANES
THAT ARE TAKING OFF.
>> YOU KNOW, THEY KNEW ABOUT IT
WHEN THEY WHEN THEY CAME THERE
.
>> SO IT'S NOT A UNIQUE
SITUATION TO THIS HOUSE IN
TERMS OF NEEDING NEEDING A
FENCE THAT'S SIX FEET.
I DO AGREE THAT THEY NEED
SOMETHING OVER THE RETAINING
WALL TO FINISH IT FOR THERE ARE
NOW TWO AND FOUR YEAR OLDS.
BUT YOU KNOW, WHEN THESE KIDS
GET TO BE TEN
, THEY'RE NOT
GOING TO WANT TO PLAY IN THE
YARD.
THEY WANT TO GO TO GIZELLA PARK
AND PEOPLE WATCH THEIR KIDS.
THEY THE NEW PARENTING STYLE IS
THAT THEY REALLY WATCH THEIR
KIDS.
YOU KNOW, I WAS LET OUT IN THE
MORNING AND I TO BE BACK BY SIX
O'CLOCK AND RAN ALL ALL OVER
THE PLACE.
MY PARENTS HAD NO IDEA WHERE I
WAS BUT NOWADAYS THEY KNOW
WHERE THEIR KIDS ARE AND EVERY
MINUTE I THE PROBLEM THAT
BOTHERS ME ABOUT THIS THEY WERE
VERY ARTICULATE ABOUT WHY THEY
WANTED BUT I THINK THEY PUSHED
AND EXAGGERATED THEIR DANGERS.
YOU CAN'T KEEP LITTLE WILDLIFE
OUT OF YOUR PROPERTY THEN
CANADA GOOSE ARE SORT
OF ANNOYING DOWN AT GALLOP BUT
YOU KNOW THAT'S THE NATURE
OF BEING NEXT TO GROW UP IN A
WILDLIFE AREA AND FOR CHIPMUNKS
AND SQUIRRELS AND DEER THEY'RE
NOT GOING TO KEEP THE DEER OUT.
THE DEER AREN'T GOING TO LEAP
BEFORE FOOT RETAINING WALL AND
THE SIX FOOT FENCE TO GET IN
BUT THEY WILL GO THE OTHER WAY
AND THEY ALSO HAVE OTHER PARTS
OF THE PROPERTY THEY CAN EASILY
GET INTO.
THEY CAN GO UP THE DRIVEWAY,
YOU KNOW, DEER OCCASIONALLY
ONCE A YEAR SHOW UP AND MY
WIFE'S ON MY PROPERTY AND
THERE'S NOT REALLY A DANGER
FROM TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
I THINK THAT'S FALSE CLAIM.
SO THEY HAVE A CONCERN ABOUT
THEIR CHILDREN AND THEY DO NEED
TO HAVE SOMETHING OVER THE REST
OF THE RETAIL WALL.
DO THEY NEED TO COMPLETE THE
REST OF THE FENCE?
I DON'T KNOW THAT THEY DO
BECAUSE THEY WON THE RETAINING
WALLS AND YOU HAVE A NICE GRASS
SLOPING AREA DOWN TO THE ROAD.
THERE ARE SO MANY AGAIN SO MANY
FAMILIES IN THIS TOWN THAT HAVE
LITTLE FRONT YARDS, BUSY
STREETS AND YES, IT'S A DANGER
.
SO THAT'S THE MAIN ARGUMENT
AGAINST IT.
THE MAIN ARGUMENT FOR IT IS WHO
THE HECK IS GOING TO SEE THIS
FENCE?
NOBODY IS NOT GOING TO BOTHER
ANYBODY.
SO THAT'S WHERE I AM.
THOSE ARE THE TWO THINGS THAT
ARE PUSHING BACK AND FORTH AND
I GUESS I LIKE A LITTLE HELP
FROM MY ZONING BOARD COLLEAGUES
HERE SO I WAS JUST OH OK.
I DON'T KNOW WHERE I'M GOING
WITH THIS BUT SO THE FENCE
DON'T HELP WITH EROSION, RIGHT?
I I SYMPATHIZE THAT THERE'S A
TRICKY SITUATION THAT OCCURRED
BASED ON A STORM IT SOUNDS LIKE
IN AROUND TWENTY TWENTY THREE
AND THEY HAD TO PUT IN A LOT
OF EXPENSE TO TO MAKE IT SAFE
AGAIN.
BUT THE FENCE CORRECT ME IF I'M
WRONG BUT THEY CAN STILL BUILD
A FENCE THAT MEETS THE CODE AND
CONTINUE THE ENCLOSURE OF THEIR
OF THEIR BACK LOT OF THE LAND.
RIGHT.
I MEAN THEY STILL HAVE THAT
OPTION TO BUILD IT BY
CODE WITHOUT THIS VARIANCE
RECLASS.
SO I I FEEL BECAUSE OF THAT
OPPORTUNITY AN OPTION THAT THEY
HAVE WE CAN'T CONTROL HUMAN
BEHAVIOR EITHER, YOU KNOW AND I
MEAN THERE'S WILDLIFE ALL OVER
THE CITY YOU DON'T WANT TO I
DON'T FEEL LIKE WE'RE IN THE
POSITION TO CONTROL THE
WILDLIFE DIABLE JUST ABOUT
EVERYTHING ANYWAYS.
SO I RIGHT NOW I'M NOT IN
SUPPORT OF OF THE OF THE
REQUEST RIGHT NOW BUT I'D BE
HAPPY TO YOUR OTHER OTHER TAKES
ON THIS AS WELL.
I THE LARGEST INFLUENCE FACTOR
FOR ME IS THAT THE FENCE WAS
THERE SO LIKE THE CLOUDS
ARGUMENT ABOUT AN AIRPORT.
RIGHT.
THE MOVIE NEXT TO AN AIRPORT
WHERE YOU GREW UP IN MISSOURI
THIS DOESN'T REALLY HOLD TRUE
BECAUSE THE FENCE WAS THERE AND
THEY'RE BUYING A HOUSE WITH A
FENCE WITH A SIX FOOT YOU KNOW,
WHATEVER CAPACITY THAT WAS LIKE
WITH THE FENCE IN THE HOUSE
CAME WITH RIGHT AND NOT WITH
ANY WALK OF THEIR OWN STORY.
RIGHT.
THEY LOST PART OF THAT FENCE
AND THEY'RE JUST TRYING TO
REISTAD WHAT THEY HAD AND WHAT
THEY PURCHASED THE HOUSE WITH
SOME OF MY OPINION LIKE
NOBODY'S GOING TO SEE IT.
IT'S GOING TO CONNECT AND WORK
WITH THE REST OF THE FENCE.
SO WHY NOT JUST LET THEM SO I'M
IN FAVOR TO I'M I'M MIXED ON
THIS TOO BECAUSE I AGREE WITH
THAT.
>> BUT I ALSO THINK I MEAN I
LIVE ON MAIN STREET ON A CORNER
LOT WITH IT THAT SLOPES DOWN
AND LIKE I DON'T THINK THAT I
WOULD BE ALLOWED TO PUT A
FENCE.
WELL, I KNOW IT WOULDN'T BE
ALLOWED TO PUT UP A FENCE THERE
AND THAT WAS SIX FOOT TALL WITH
ZERO PERCENT CAPACITY AND SO
ARE ON.
YEAH.
AND SO IT'S AND THERE ARE I'M
ON A CORNER SO THERE ARE THREE
OTHER HOUSES THAT ARE JUST
EXACTLY THAT SAME WAY AND IT
YOU CAN PUT A FENCE HERE, YOU
CAN PUT A FENCE AND PUT YOU
KNOW BUSHES IN FRONT OF THE
FENCE OR BUSHES BEHIND THE
FENCE AND SO IT'S JUST IT'S A
LITTLE HARD FOR ME BECAUSE I
CAN'T TAKE INTO CONSIDERATION
THE KIDS OR THE BECAUSE YOU
COULD SELL A HOUSE TOMORROW AND
SO WE CAN'T TAKE THAT AS IT'S
THE HOUSE OR THE BUILDING AND
THE LOT NOT WHO'S LIVING IN IT
THAT WE HAVE TO CONSIDER.
AND I I THINK IT'S IT'S IT'S
TRICKY FOR ME BECAUSE THERE ARE
A LOT OF PLACES THAT ARE LIKE
THIS AND WE DO HAVE CRITERIA
THAT WE'RE SUPPOSED TO LOOK AT
AND I DON'T KNOW BUT ALSO I
FEEL LIKE YEAH, YOU BOUGHT A
HOUSE THAT HAD A FENCED IN YARD
AND JUST WANT TO REPLACE THAT
FENCED IN YARD AND SO IT DOES
AGAIN THANKS TO GOOGLE.
IT DOES YOU KNOW THE LOOKS LIKE
THE FENCE WENT IN IN TWENTY
SOME SOMETIME BEFORE JULY
OF TWENTY EIGHTEEN SO AT LEAST
IN AN AREA THERE SO BUT YEAH
I'M I'M I'M STILL CONFLICTED
TOO ABOUT JOHN DO YOU HAPPEN TO
KNOW IF THERE'S ANY KIND
OF REQUIREMENT IN IT'S PROBABLY
A BUILDING CODE THING THAT
THERE HAS TO BE SOMETHING ON
THE TOP OF THAT RETAINING WALL
TO LIKE SOME KIND OF A FENCE OR
BARRIER BECAUSE OF THE HEIGHT
OF IT?
I'M NOT AWARE OF ANY TYPE
OF BARRIER THAT'S REQUIRED THE
BUILDING CODE THEY KNOW THAT
ONCE A ONCE A A RETAINING WALL
EXCEEDS FOUR FEET IN HEIGHT.
THEY REQUIRE A BUILDING PERMIT
.
BUT I THINK I'VE JUST SEEN
RETAINING WALLS AROUND TOWN.
I SEE A LOT OF RETAINING WALLS
THAT JUST HAVE GRASS AND THEN
THE RETAINING WALL IT ENDS AND
THAT'S IT.
OK, I'M NOT SURE IF THERE IS
ANY TYPE OF ARTIFICIAL BARRIER
REQUIRED ON TOP.
I DON'T THINK THERE IS.
I'M READY TO MAKE A MOTION
YOU'D LIKE TO MAKE IT REAL
QUICK.
I JUST WANT TO SAY DOOLALLY
MAKE SOME REALLY GOOD POINTS.
I WILL SAY THE DIFFERENCE WITH
MAIN IN HERE THIS IS FORTY
MILES AN HOUR MEANS THIRTY
RIGHT.
SO THERE ARE DIFFERENT ROADS.
CARS SPEED A LOT FASTER HERE
THAN I'M ON THAT SECTION
OF MAIN STREET THAT IS A THAT
IS A DIFFERENCE.
I THINK IT'S ENOUGH TO MAKE
ANYONE CHANGE THEIR VOTE BUT
THAT IS A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
THIS LOT IN YOUR LIFE.
BUT HOUSES ARE CLOSER ON MAIN
SO STOP TIME IT IS I DON'T KNOW
HOW TO YOU KNOW, SET THOSE AS
PARAMETER.
>> RIGHT.
FAIR ENOUGH.
VOTE VOTE HOW YOU FEEL.
I LIKE HAD A SECOND ARGUMENT
WHO THE HECK CARES?
I GRANT FIVE MINUTES AGO
WITHOUT CARE THAT WAS YOUR
ARGUMENT THOUGHT IT WAS A GOOD
ONE WITH ALL WITH ALL DUE
RESPECT I JUST I DON'T THINK
THE SPEED OF A TRAFFIC HAS
ANYTHING TO DO WITH THIS THIS
BEING THAT HIGH SCHOOL.
RIGHT.
I DON'T THINK RESTORE YOUR TEEN
DRIVERS ARE THE GREATEST
DRIVERS IN THE WORLD SO I'M
READY FOR EMOTIONS.
ARE WE READY FOR EMOTION?
IS THERE MORE DISCUSSION TO GO
FOR IT?
THANK YOU ZIBA TWENTY FIVE DASH
YOUR ZERO TWO ZERO FOUR SEVENTY
HERE ON PARKWAY IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE ESTABLISHED STANDARDS
FOR APPROVAL, THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS
INVARIANCE OF TWO FEET IN
HEIGHT AND FIF PERCENT
OPACITY VARIANCE FROM TABLE
FIVE POINT TWENTY SIX DASH ONE
HEIGHT AND OPACITY STANDARDS
FOR FENCE'S.
THE OWNERS ARE SEEKING TO
INSTALL A NEW SIX FOOT TALL
FULL PRIVACY FENCE THAT WILL BE
THIRTY FIVE LINEAR FEET IN
LENGTH IN THE FRONT YARD THE
FENCE IS TO BE BUILT PER THE
SUBMITTED PLANS.
THANK YOU DAVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO HAVE
SUPPORT.
THANK YOU TODD
.
PATTY.
YES, CHRISTINA NO DAVE GIVATI
YES.
MIKE.
JULIE NO TODD NO.
YES.
I'M GOING TO SAY YES BECAUSE
JULIE NO TODD NO.
I'M A WIMP.
I'M GOING TO SAY YES BECAUSE
WE HAVE TO BREAK RULES
OF OK,
NO PRESSURE HERE AGAIN WE CAN
TAKE A TEN MINUTE RECESS, CHECK
IT UP
.
I'LL ALSO VOTE YES THEIR
REQUEST IS GRANTED.
MOVING ON TO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS.
WE HAVE
DONE NEW BUSINESS
REPORTS FROM COUNCIL DARMA IS
NOT HERE COMMUNICATIONS I
BELIEVE WE ADDRESSED ALL OF OUR
COMMUNICATIONS AS PART OF OUR
PUBLIC HEARING PUBLIC COMMENT
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
ANY MATTER WHATSOEVER, NOW'S
YOUR CHANCE PLEASE.
THERE'S NO ONE HERE.
BUT IF THERE'S ANYONE REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE OR USE
THE RAISE HAND BUTTON THERE ARE
NO CALLERS.
THANK YOU, JOHN WITH IT DO WE
HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN
MOTION?
>> THANK YOU PATTY.
SUPPORT SUPPORT ME ALL IN